So over the last lectures we added code to post data and to therefore sign up and sign in, now we
want to also store the data we get back, that token. And we got the store, the vuex store,
I only set up the basics here,
it's totally empty as you can tell.
Now here, I simply want to add an ID token field which should be null initially to my state and then, I also
want to let's say add a user ID which should be null initially and then let's see what else we eventually
need.
Now the goal is to of course store the token in user ID here in the vuex store,
now for that,
why don't we start by simply making the sign up and sign in requests from within actions here?
So we could have a sign up action here
and of course a login action too, now for these actions,
we will obviously need to extract our commit method which allows us to commit a mutation,
we don't have any commit any mutations yet but we will create them
and if you don't know how vuex works, make sure to check out my vuex module first of course.
Now the second argument we can expect here in the sign up method is the payload,
so let's say the auth data, you can name this argument whatever you want,
I also expect to get some auth data in the login method.
And now I'll just grab my code from the sign up file, this post request here, cut it from there and go to the
store and add it to the sign up method. For this to work, I
of course also need to grab the axios import, remove it from the signup.vue file and add it to
the store instead,
I just need to adjust the path here,
now it's in the same folder.
Now we can reach out to this axios instance here, send the post request for signing up
and of course do the same for signing in. There,
I'll also simply remove the axios import,
we don't need it anymore in that file
and I'll grab this axios post request here and add it to the login method.
Now I need to extract my e-mail and so on from the auth data,
so I replace form data with auth data in both login and sign up
and now we have our actions set up to send the requests.
They don't commit any mutations yet but at least we moved our code into the right place because these
should really be actions, we should really be able to handle the result of our requests
here in the vuex store. Now the goal of course now is to use these actions,
the store already is injected in the main.js file,
so in signup.vue, I can now dispatch this action here in on submit,
I can simply access this store dispatch and dispatch the login action, excuse me, the sign up action
here and simply pass a javascript object where the email is form data e-mail and where the password
is form data password, that will constitute this auth data object
I expect to get in my actions. The same logic of course applies to the signin.vue file, there
I also want to dispatch an action,
it's the login action here but it receives the same data though.
With that, we are dispatching the actions,
let's now see if that works before we actually dive into mutating the store and storing the token, back
to our application therefore. Here on sign up, let me create a new user with a new unused email address
and let me click submit
and we see that we now successfully created a user,
now however using our store there, the sign up action.
Now that is how we move that logic to the store,
that's the first step, in the next lecture, we'll make the more important step
I'd say, we'll add a mutation which then also allows us to store that token in our state so that we may
use it for subsequent requests.